README.md, before:

# AIO Tests Jenkins Plugin

<img src="images/ic-app-icon.svg" width="192">

## Introduction

The AIO Tests Jenkins plugin provides _yet another easy to use interface_ to report test results 
into [AIO Tests for Jira](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1222843/aio-tests-for-jira?hosting=cloud&tab=overview), right after the automated tests have run.  The plugin wraps up the AIO [public APIs](https://tcms.aioreports.com/aiotcms-static/api-docs/) to 
import test results from TestNG/JUnit/NUnit/Robot result XML files or Cucumber.json or Newman report.   It can be used with any framework capable of generating JUnit files
like Webdriverio/Cypress/PyTest amongst many others. 

The plugin gives the following options 
- to update existing Cycle case runs or create new execution Cycles on the fly for each run.  
- to add cases to an execution Cycle 
- to create new Cases in AIO Tests, if they do not exist


## Getting started

### Installing the plugin

AIO Tests Jenkins plugin can be installed from the Jenkins marketplace as below.

1. Login to your Jenkins instance.
2. Go to Manage Jenkins > Manage Plugins > Available
3. Now search for AIO Tests and click Install

### Requirements
1. Jenkins 2.235.1 or higher
2. Jira cloud instance with AIO Tests for Jira installed 

### Reporting results

The plugin works in the `post build actions` step, after the build steps are run.  
Assuming that the tests have run and a results xml (Junit/TestNG/any XUnit framework which generates a JUnit xml report)
has been generated, the AIO Tests plugin can be used as below to report results of cases in the report XML to Jira.

1. Go to project -> Configure
2. Click on the Post Build Actions -> Select Publish Results to AIO Tests
3. Specify the Project for which run results need to be published
4. Choose a framework and specify the path of the file - relative to the workspace eg. ```/target/surefire-reports/testng-results.xml```

      >For frameworks other than JUnit or TestNG, if results file is being generated in JUnit format, please select JUnit
5. Select preferences for results reporting
6. Specify the API Key generated from AIO Tests in Jira.  Please refer [Generating API Key](https://aioreports.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ATDoc/pages/484048912/Access+Token)
for more information

| Field                                 | Details                                                                                            |
|---------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Cycle Preference                      | Select between existing, new cycle or search for an existing cycle by name and create if not found |
| Cycle Prefix                          | In case of new cycle, Cycle prefix will be used to prefix the cycle title                          |
| Cycle Key                             | If existing cycle is selected, AIO Tests cycle key eg. SCRUM-CY-121                                |
| Cycle Name                            | If Create if absent cycle is selected, name of cycle to search or to create in its absence         |
| Add Case                              | If checked, cases not already in cycle are added, else the cases are reported as errors            |
| Create New Run                        | If checked, new run is created for each case execution, else existing run is overwritten           |
| Create Case                           | If checked and no case exists with a matching case key or automation key, a new case is created    |
| Ignore class in auto key              | If checked, only method name forms the automation key and classname is ignored from JUnit file.    |
| Default Folder for Cases              | Folder in which new cases need to be created.  Can be folder hierarchy too.                        |
| Update Only Run Status                | If checked for BDD frameworks, step matching is skipped and only run status is updated.            |
| Hide Publish Result Details           | If checked, it would hide testcase wise details                                                    |
| Fail build if result publishing fails | If checked, the build result will be updated to failed, in case publishing results fails           |
| Create log report                     | Logs will be created in a separate file instead of being published in console log                  |

### Reporting results in pipeline

The AIO Tests Jenkins plugin has support for being run as a pipeline task.  
For security of API Key, secret text credentials can be used to avoid putting the key in plain text.
Below is an example.

```
pipeline {
       agent any
       environment {
           AIO_TESTS_API_KEY = credentials('aioTestApiKey')
       }
       stages {
           stage('SCM') {
               steps {
                   git 'https://github.com/org/sample-testng-tests.git'                       
               }
           }
           stage('Build') {
               steps {
                   sh 'mvn test'
               }
           }
       }
       post {
           always {
                   aioImport frameworkType : 'TestNG',
                         isBatch: false,
                         createNewRun: true,
                         addCaseToCycle :true,
                         createCase :true,
                         ignoreClassInAutoKey: true, 
                         bddForceUpdateCase: false,
                         defaultFolder: '',
                         forceUpdateCase: false,
                         createLogReport: false,                          
                         entry: [$class: 'NewCycle', cyclePrefix: 'Regression Run V1.0'],
                        //For existing cycles : entry: [$class: 'ExistingCycle', cycleKey: 'SCRUM-CY-191'],
                        //For createIfabsent cycles : entry: [$class: 'CreateIfCycleAbsent', cycleName: 'Regression Release Alpha'],
                         apiKey : hudson.util.Secret.fromString(env.AIO_TESTS_API_KEY),
                         resultsFilePath : '/target/surefire-reports/testng-results.xml',
                         projectKey: 'SCRUM',
                         hideDetails: false
               
           }
       }
   }
```

### Parameters
If the job is a parameterized build, the plugin supports parametrization for the project key, results file path, cycle prefix,
existing cycle key and API key fields. 


## Support

For any issues or enhancements, please reach out @ [AIO issue tracker](https://aioreports.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/10/group/19/create/83).


## About AIO Tests

[AIO Tests for Jira](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1222843/aio-tests-for-jira?hosting=cloud&tab=overview) is a test management tool which aims to simplify the entire test lifecycle with powerful features 
like simple testcase creation and management, traceability with requirements, modularization of cases, efficient case execution,
insightful reporting and agile automation.  

To learn more, please have a look at our extensive [documentation](https://aioreports.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ATDoc/overview).  

## License

Licensed under Apache License 2.0, see [LICENSE](LICENSE.md)

Commit message:

Adding Force Update option to Testng and JUnit

README.md, after:

# AIO Tests Jenkins Plugin

<img src="images/ic-app-icon.svg" width="192">

## Introduction

The AIO Tests Jenkins plugin provides _yet another easy to use interface_ to report test results 
into [AIO Tests for Jira](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1222843/aio-tests-for-jira?hosting=cloud&tab=overview), right after the automated tests have run.  The plugin wraps up the AIO [public APIs](https://tcms.aioreports.com/aiotcms-static/api-docs/) to 
import test results from TestNG/JUnit/NUnit/Robot result XML files or Cucumber.json or Newman report.   It can be used with any framework capable of generating JUnit files
like Webdriverio/Cypress/PyTest amongst many others. 

The plugin gives the following options 
- to update existing Cycle case runs or create new execution Cycles on the fly for each run.  
- to add cases to an execution Cycle 
- to create new Cases in AIO Tests, if they do not exist


## Getting started

### Installing the plugin

AIO Tests Jenkins plugin can be installed from the Jenkins marketplace as below.

1. Login to your Jenkins instance.
2. Go to Manage Jenkins > Manage Plugins > Available
3. Now search for AIO Tests and click Install

### Requirements
1. Jenkins 2.235.1 or higher
2. Jira cloud instance with AIO Tests for Jira installed 

### Reporting results

The plugin works in the `post build actions` step, after the build steps are run.  
Assuming that the tests have run and a results xml (Junit/TestNG/any XUnit framework which generates a JUnit xml report)
has been generated, the AIO Tests plugin can be used as below to report results of cases in the report XML to Jira.

1. Go to project -> Configure
2. Click on the Post Build Actions -> Select Publish Results to AIO Tests
3. Specify the Project for which run results need to be published
4. Choose a framework and specify the path of the file - relative to the workspace eg. ```/target/surefire-reports/testng-results.xml```

      >For frameworks other than JUnit or TestNG, if results file is being generated in JUnit format, please select JUnit
5. Select preferences for results reporting
6. Specify the API Key generated from AIO Tests in Jira.  Please refer [Generating API Key](https://aioreports.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ATDoc/pages/484048912/Access+Token)
for more information

| Field                                 | Details                                                                                                  |
|---------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Cycle Preference                      | Select between existing, new cycle or search for an existing cycle by name and create if not found       |
| Cycle Prefix                          | In case of new cycle, Cycle prefix will be used to prefix the cycle title                                |
| Cycle Key                             | If existing cycle is selected, AIO Tests cycle key eg. SCRUM-CY-121                                      |
| Cycle Name                            | If Create if absent cycle is selected, name of cycle to search or to create in its absence               |
| Add Case                              | If checked, cases not already in cycle are added, else the cases are reported as errors                  |
| Create New Run                        | If checked, new run is created for each case execution, else existing run is overwritten                 |
| Create Case                           | If checked and no case exists with a matching case key or automation key, a new case is created          |
| Ignore class in auto key              | If checked, only method name forms the automation key and classname is ignored from JUnit file.          |
| Force Update Case                     | If checked, test details for TestNG, JUnit and steps for Robot cases get updated with results file data. |
| Default Folder for Cases              | Folder in which new cases need to be created.  Can be folder hierarchy too.                              |
| Update Only Run Status                | If checked for BDD frameworks, step matching is skipped and only run status is updated.                  |
| Hide Publish Result Details           | If checked, it would hide testcase wise details                                                          |
| Fail build if result publishing fails | If checked, the build result will be updated to failed, in case publishing results fails                 |
| Create log report                     | Logs will be created in a separate file instead of being published in console log                        |

### Reporting results in pipeline

The AIO Tests Jenkins plugin has support for being run as a pipeline task.  
For security of API Key, secret text credentials can be used to avoid putting the key in plain text.
Below is an example.

```
pipeline {
       agent any
       environment {
           AIO_TESTS_API_KEY = credentials('aioTestApiKey')
       }
       stages {
           stage('SCM') {
               steps {
                   git 'https://github.com/org/sample-testng-tests.git'                       
               }
           }
           stage('Build') {
               steps {
                   sh 'mvn test'
               }
           }
       }
       post {
           always {
                   aioImport frameworkType : 'TestNG',
                         isBatch: false,
                         createNewRun: true,
                         addCaseToCycle :true,
                         createCase :true,
                         ignoreClassInAutoKey: true, 
                         bddForceUpdateCase: false,
                         defaultFolder: '',
                         forceUpdateCase: false,
                         createLogReport: false,                          
                         entry: [$class: 'NewCycle', cyclePrefix: 'Regression Run V1.0'],
                        //For existing cycles : entry: [$class: 'ExistingCycle', cycleKey: 'SCRUM-CY-191'],
                        //For createIfabsent cycles : entry: [$class: 'CreateIfCycleAbsent', cycleName: 'Regression Release Alpha'],
                         apiKey : hudson.util.Secret.fromString(env.AIO_TESTS_API_KEY),
                         resultsFilePath : '/target/surefire-reports/testng-results.xml',
                         projectKey: 'SCRUM',
                         hideDetails: false
               
           }
       }
   }
```

### Parameters
If the job is a parameterized build, the plugin supports parametrization for the project key, results file path, cycle prefix,
existing cycle key and API key fields. 


## Support

For any issues or enhancements, please reach out @ [AIO issue tracker](https://aioreports.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/10/group/19/create/83).


## About AIO Tests

[AIO Tests for Jira](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1222843/aio-tests-for-jira?hosting=cloud&tab=overview) is a test management tool which aims to simplify the entire test lifecycle with powerful features 
like simple testcase creation and management, traceability with requirements, modularization of cases, efficient case execution,
insightful reporting and agile automation.  

To learn more, please have a look at our extensive [documentation](https://aioreports.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ATDoc/overview).  

## License

Licensed under Apache License 2.0, see [LICENSE](LICENSE.md)
